Wolfram Mathematica License Agreement

----------------------------------------
Acceptance
----------------------------------------

This is a binding Agreement: read all terms; retain a copy.

The terms and conditions of this License Agreement are subject to change without
notice from time to time at our sole discretion. We will notify You of
amendments to these terms and conditions by posting them at
https://www.wolfram.com/legal/agreements/wolfram-mathematica.

Carefully read the following terms and conditions before accessing, installing
or using the Software. By clicking "I agree", opening the media container,
downloading the Product or installing/using the Product, You are consenting to
be bound by this Mathematica License Agreement ("Agreement"). If You are not
willing to accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, You may not
access, copy, install, or use the Product, and should uninstall/remove/destroy
any additional or already installed copies of the Product.

----------------------------------------
Definitions
----------------------------------------

WRI: Wolfram Research, Inc., 100 Trade Center Drive, Champaign, IL 61820-7237,
USA.

You/Licensee: The individual or organization obtaining the Product. If
You/Licensee agree to these terms on behalf of an organization, You represent to
WRI that You are authorized to accept these terms on the organization's behalf.

Software: The Wolfram Language, Wolfram Desktop, Wolfram|One and Mathematica
family of computer programs provided by WRI under this Agreement.

Product: All the materials, including the Software, provided by WRI under this
Agreement.

Intellectual Property Rights: Any and all rights existing from time to time
under patent law, copyright law, trade secret law, trademark law and/or unfair
competition law, and any and all other proprietary rights, and any and all
applications, renewals, extensions and restorations thereof.

License Certificate: User-specific document specifying Your License Class, Use
Class and number of Processes, and which may include additional use
specifications or restrictions.

License Class: Indicates whether the Software is licensed for Single-Machine or
Network use. Your License Class is indicated on Your License Certificate.

Use Class: Indicates whether there are additional restrictions on how the
Product may be used. Your Use Class is indicated on Your License Certificate.

Controlling Process: A Mathematica kernel or front end that handles input,
output and scheduling for the Computation Processes.

Computation Process: A Mathematica kernel that does computations, only accepting
input from and returning output to a Controlling Process kernel; or a
Mathematica front end that only accepts input from and returns output to a
Computation Process kernel.

Remote Access to License: Accessing the Software of another computer that is
located at the physical site of product registration.

Single-Machine: Pertaining to a Product or a Controlling or Computation Process
that can only be reinstalled on another computer by applying a System Transfer.

Network: Pertaining to a Controlling or Computation Process (or Product
containing one or more such Processes) that may move to different computers
within the licensed network(s) without the need to apply a System Transfer.

Network License Controller (i.e. MathLM, Network License Manager): A
Single-Machine process that controls policies of usage of Network processes
(including the maximum number of concurrent processes).

Registered Network User: A user registered in conjunction with a Network
License. The location from which the user regularly accesses and uses the
Software must be the same as the physical site at which the License is
registered.

System Transfer: Converting a Product to a different configuration (e.g.
Single-Machine to Network), platform (e.g. Windows to Linux) or Product.

----------------------------------------
Ownership
----------------------------------------

WRI is the sole owner of the Product with the exception of the portions licensed
by WRI from third-party owners. WRI is the holder of the Intellectual Property
Rights in the Product, including, without limitation, such aspects of the
Software as its code, structure, sequence, organization, "look and feel",
programming language and compilations of command names, descriptors and data.
Use of the Product, unless pursuant to the terms of a license granted by WRI or
as otherwise authorized by law, is an infringement of Intellectual Property
Rights. When publishing academic or research papers for which Mathematica was
used, the Product should be appropriately cited as a reference and/or described
in a methods section. Notwithstanding the obligation to provide acknowledgment
stated above, no other right to use the names, marks or other distinctions of
the Product or WRI is granted.

----------------------------------------
Permitted Uses and Installations
----------------------------------------

Subject to the terms of this Agreement and Your acceptance thereof, WRI grants
You a non-exclusive license to use the Product solely in accordance with the
License Class, Processes and Use Class indicated on Your License Certificate.
This Agreement terminates in the event that You receive a license to use an
upgraded version of the Product in place of this Product, which upgrade, as well
as any other improvement or enhancement, WRI is under no obligation to provide.
Should You receive an upgraded version of the Product and desire to continue
concurrent use of the older version, this License Agreement and License
Certificate shall be merged with and be superseded by the upgraded License
Agreement and License Certificate such that Your continued use will be allowed
under the terms, conditions and restrictions therein. Your license to use the
Product terminates on the license expiration date, if one is indicated, or upon
notice of a material breach that is not cured within 30 days of receipt of
notice. Provisions of this Agreement that by their nature express ongoing rights
or obligations shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
You are also authorized to:

a. for a Single-Machine License Class, install and use Software only from a
   single storage device (e.g. a hard-disk drive);

b. for a Network License Class, install and use the Software from storage
   devices that are located at the physical site of Product Registration and are
   accessible by the Network License Controller;

c. maintain one archival copy of the Software (such as a digital file or a DVD);

d. undertake a System Transfer for active and supported Software if You contact
   WRI Customer Service and, at its direction, complete and submit a System
   Transfer Form; and You pay any license cost difference or applicable transfer
   fee;

e. transfer the Product subject to this Agreement to a different Licensee only
   if (1) the transferee's use of the Software falls into the same Mathematica
   service level; (2) You contact WRI Customer Service to convey relevant
   information and certify that You have destroyed or given to the transferee
   all copies of the Software and other elements of the Product in Your
   possession; (3) You pay any license cost difference or applicable transfer
   fee; and (4) the transferee accepts all the terms and conditions of this
   Agreement;

f. use Remote Access to a License, if You are a Primary User of a Single-Machine
   License or a Registered User on a Network License that would be eligible to
   use the License directly; and

g. author and distribute Computable Document Format (CDF) files consistent with
   any associated licensing terms.

----------------------------------------
Prohibited Uses
----------------------------------------

All uses of the Software and other elements of the Product not specifically
stated in the Permitted Uses and Installations section of this Agreement or
otherwise set forth in alternative or supplemental license agreements or terms
of use are prohibited, including, without limitation:

a. running more Controlling Processes or Computational Processes concurrently
   than the maximum specified on Your License Certificate, or allowing access to
   a single Controlling Process by multiple computers or terminals;

b. decompiling, disassembling or reverse engineering the Software;

c. modifying the Software in any manner, except those portions written in the
   Wolfram Language and included as examples;

d. distributing, publishing, transferring, sublicensing, lending, leasing,
   renting or otherwise making available the Product or any portion of the
   Software, including collections of data, except as permitted at
   https://www.wolfram.com/components for distributing Mathematica-generated
   code;

e. copying or allowing copying of the Product or any elements of the Product,
   except as permitted for the maintenance of an archival copy of the Software
   as allowed by the Permitted Uses and Installations section of this Agreement;

f. allowing access to the Product by any user other than Licensee;

g. removing any copyright, trademark or other proprietary notices from the
   Product;

h. installing separate components of each Controlling Process or Computation
   Process on separate computers, with the exception that the front end of a
   Controlling Process can be on a separate computer from the associated kernel;

i. using the Software for any illegal purpose or to create malicious programs,
   including but not limited to creating computer viruses and malware or denying
   computer bandwidth to WRI and its affiliates and users; and

j. using a password, activation key or other means of accessing the Software
   other than as specifically authorized by WRI.

----------------------------------------
Online Services and Data
----------------------------------------

Certain Product functionality may require the Software to access collections of
 data available through external servers. WRI makes no warranty that access to
 such data will be uninterrupted or that the data itself will be error free. WRI
 reserves the right to restrict access to, add, update, modify or remove
 collections of data based on availability, Your service subscription or
 otherwise at WRI's discretion. You agree all data access and use shall be
 limited to the Permitted Uses, and agree not to access or use data collections
 in such a manner that could damage, disable, overburden or impair the servers
 providing such data. You agree to only access collections of data through the
 intended Software interface. Data provided through WRI's online services
 constitutes protected intellectual property and may not be copied, distributed,
 used to construct a database, stored (in whole or in part) in databases for
 access by You or any third party, or provided or distributed through any
 database services containing all or part of such data. Access to the online
 services is provided to You at WRI's discretion, and may be terminated or
 restricted at any time.

Wolfram|Alpha: Mathematica functionality allows You to access Wolfram|Alpha data
from within the Software. In addition to the general Online Services and Data
terms and restrictions listed above, data and other results obtained through the
Wolfram|Alpha functionality are subject to the Wolfram|Alpha Terms of Use at
https://www.wolframalpha.com/termsofuse. Your use of this functionality
indicates Your acceptance of these terms.

Wolfram Cloud: Mathematica functionality allows You to access the Wolfram Cloud
from within the Software. In addition to being subject to the general Online
Services and Data terms and restrictions, as well as the Wolfram|Alpha Terms of
Use, the Wolfram Cloud service is subject to the Terms of Use at
https://www.wolfram.com/legal/terms/wolfram-cloud. Your use of this
functionality indicates your acceptance of these terms.

----------------------------------------
Limited Warranty and Disclaimer
----------------------------------------

WRI warrants that the Product shall be free from defects in the physical media
for a period of 90 days following the date of purchase when used under normal
conditions. You acknowledge that WRI shall provide, as Your sole remedy for
breach of this warranty, another copy of the Software. The foregoing warranty is
in lieu of all other warranties, express or implied.

WRI does not warrant that the Product is free from all errors and/or omissions,
and in fact it may contain them. Except as specifically set forth above, the
Product is provided "as is". WRI makes no representations or warranties,
express, statutory or implied, with respect to the Product or the Software
contained in the Product or data accessed thereby, including, without
limitation, any implied warranties of merchantability, interoperability or
fitness for a particular purpose, all of which are expressly disclaimed. WRI
does not warrant that the functions contained in the Product will meet Your
requirements or that the operation of the Product will be uninterrupted or error
free.

WRI, and its agents, representatives and independent contractors, shall not be
obligated to provide or liable, under any circumstances, for providing
information on or corrections to errors and/or omissions discovered at any time
in the Product, whether or not they were aware of the errors and/or omissions.
WRI does not recommend the use of the Product for applications in which errors
and/or omissions could threaten life, injury or significant loss. Some states do
not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so this may not apply to You.
This warranty gives You specific legal rights, and You may also have other
rights that vary from state to state. This Agreement is governed by the laws of
the State of Illinois in the United States of America without effect to any
choice of law provisions.

----------------------------------------
Limited Damages
----------------------------------------

In no event shall WRI or its agents, representatives and independent contractors
be liable for any lost profits, lost use, lost benefits or any consequential,
indirect, incidental, special or punitive damages, whether in contract, tort or
otherwise, even if WRI has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
WRI's cumulative liability to You or any other party for any loss or damages
resulting from any claims, demands, actions or otherwise arising out of or
relating to this Agreement shall not exceed the license fee paid for the
Product. Some states do not allow certain limitations of damages, so the above
limitations may not apply to You.

----------------------------------------
United States Federal Government Restricted Rights
----------------------------------------

If this Software is acquired by or on behalf of the US federal government, this
provision applies. Use, duplication or disclosure of this Software is subject to
restrictions set forth in FAR 52.227-19 and DFAR 227.7200 - 227.7202-4, as
applicable. The Software is "commercial computer software" and is licensed with
only "Restricted Rights".

----------------------------------------
Translations
----------------------------------------

Where WRI has provided You with a translation of the English-language version of
the terms, then You agree that the translation is provided for Your convenience
only and that the English-language version of the terms will govern Your
relationship with WRI. If there is any contradiction or discrepancy between what
the English-language version of the terms says and what a translation says, then
the English-language version shall take precedence.

----------------------------------------
General
----------------------------------------

Wolfram Mathematica and Mathematica are registered trademarks and Wolfram
Language, MathLM, Computable Document Format, Wolfram Desktop, Wolfram|One and
Wolfram Cloud are trademarks of Wolfram Research, Inc. Wolfram|Alpha is a
registered trademark of Wolfram Alpha LLC.

Important details regarding Your use of Mathematica in accordance with the terms
of this Agreement are listed on Your License Certificate.

Wolfram takes privacy and data protection seriously, and is committed to
safeguarding data you share with us. To learn more, please see our Privacy
Policy at https://www.wolfram.com/legal/privacy/wolfram.
